
[JavaScript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/JavaScript) is typically used as a client side script within web browsers. It may also be used for general purpose scripting duties.

Implementation
--------------
The JavaScript implementation used by KosmicTask is supplied by the OS X JavaScript Core framework. JavaScript powered tasks do not run within the context of a webview and so do not have access to an HTML [DOM](https://developer.apple.com/library/mac/#documentation/AppleApplications/Conceptual/SafariJSProgTopics/WebKitJavaScript.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/30001232-SW1) object or to other [WebKit](https://developer.apple.com/library/mac/#documentation/AppleApplications/Conceptual/SafariJSProgTopics/Concepts/AboutJavaScript.html) supplied objects such as [XMLHttpRequest](https://developer.apple.com/library/mac/#documentation/AppleApplications/Conceptual/SafariJSProgTopics/Articles/XHR.html).

JavaScript powered tasks that require URL loading capabilities should be scripted as [JavaScript Cocoa (JSCocoa)](http://www.mugginsoft.com/kosmictask/help/languages/javascript-cocoa) applets. JSCocoa provides to all the [Foundation](http://developer.apple.com/library/mac/#documentation/Cocoa/Reference/Foundation/ObjC_classic/_index.html) framework classes and thus greatly extends JavaScript scripting capabilities.

Limitations
-----------

JavaScript prohibits general purpose access to the operating system and so cannot, for example, create new file content.

A KosmicTask JavaScript powered task may however return existing file content if the required path is known.

Calling the Task Run Function
-----------------------------

KosmicTask JavaScript powered tasks are initiated by calling the **Run Function** defined in the task Settings. In the following example the task **Run Function** is set to kosmicTask.

	function kosmicTask() 
	{
		// return our string result
		return 'Hello, kosmos!';
	}


Result Objects
--------------

JavaScript tasks may generally return numbers and strings directly from the task run function. Some other objects may also be rendered in an intelligible format when returned directly.

To return structured data reliably, including the contents of files, JavaScript powered tasks should format result data using [YAML](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML). KosmicTask supports both the YAML and JSON formats.

JavaScript tasks may either return YAML or JSON format strings directly or make use of the provided **KosmicTaskController** class. This class (which is automatically added to the JavaScript global context) provides a convenience method that converts native JavaScript objects such as Array and Object into the required YAML format string.

	function kosmicTask() 
	{
	
		// define properties on an object
		var planets = new Object();
		planets["us"] = "earth";
		planets["them"] = "mars";
		planets.no_one = "moon";	
	
		// return native object as YAML
		return KosmicTaskController.objectAsString(planets);
	}

YAML can be viewed as a natural superset of JSON (JavaScript Object Notation). Hence calling the **KosmicTaskController** class objectAsString function is functionally equivalent to calling JSON.stringify.

JavaScript does not support a dictionary object directly but an associative storage model can be achieved by using dynamic object properties. In the above example a generic object is created and new properties are defined using the two available syntaxes for property assignment. When a JavaScript object is converted to YAML the object's properties are represented as entries in an associative array.

For a discussion on JavaScript associative arrays see <http://blog.xkoder.com/2008/07/10/javascript-associative-arrays-demystified/>


Result File Handling
--------------------

KosmicTask supports the returning of file contents within task results. 

KosmicTask automatically looks for a **kosmicFile** record containing file paths within a dictionary type result object. If found, KosmicTask will return the contents of the file or files to the client.

Javascript cannot directly access the file system to create a file but a task may return a file if it already exists:

	file = "'~/somefile.txt'";
		
	// return a JSON dictionary
	result = "--- {kosmicFile: " + file + "}";


Logging and Debugging
---------------------

Diagnostic and logging information can be written to a task's error stream using the log() function. JavaScript does not feature a native logging capability and the function described here is provided by the task runner. 

	// send log value to stderr
	log("Goodbye, kosmos");
	
	The KosmicTaskController object also supports logging.
	
	// send log value to stderr
	KosmicTaskController.log("Goodbye, kosmos");


Syntax Checking
---------------

On Intel powered macs enhanced syntax checking is supplied by [JavaScriptLint](http://www.javascriptlint.com/)
