
JavaScript Cocoa tasks access the Cocoa framework via the [JSCocoa][jscocoa] bridge. 

JSCocoa provides a bridge between the JavaScript and [Objective-C][objective-c] programming languages. 


Using JSCocoa to Overcome Native JavaScript Limitations 
--------------------------------------------------------

Native JavaScript prohibits access to the operating system.

However, using JSCocoa it is possible to escape the sandbox and access the operating system directly, for example, to permit file access or launch new processes using [NSTask][nstask].

	function kosmicTask() 
	{
		
	 	// form our image file result path
	 	// this file will be automatically deleted when the task ends.
		var path = KosmicTaskController.resultFileWithName('capture.png');
		
		// capture screen shot to file
		var task = NSTask.launchedTaskWithLaunchPath_arguments('/usr/sbin/screenCapture', ['-t', 'png', path]);
		task.waitUntilExit;
	
		// form result dictionary 
		var result = {kosmicFile: path};
				
		return result
	
	}

Method Syntax
-------------

JSCocoa supports two ways to call methods on Cocoa classes and objects. The first uses JavaScript property syntax. Cocoa method signatures are converted to function names by replacing : (colon) with _ (underscore). The trailing underscore on function names may be omitted.

	// define url
	var theUrl = NSURL.URLWithString_(theAddress);
		
	// define the request - note trailing underscore omitted
	var theRequest = NSMutableURLRequest.requestWithURL_cachePolicy_timeoutInterval(theUrl, NSURLRequestReloadIgnoringLocalCacheData, 60);
	theRequest.setHTTPMethod_("GET");
		
The second way to call Cocoa methods is by using [Objective-J](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Objective-J) syntax. Code syntax is now very similar to native [Objective-C](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Objective-C), the language normally used to create native applications on OS X.

	// get response data
	var theResponse = null;
	var theResponseData = [NSURLConnection sendSynchronousRequest:theRequest returningResponse:nil error:nil];
		
	// convert data to text
	theText = [[NSString alloc] initWithData:theResponseData encoding:NSUTF8StringEncoding]; 

From an Objective-C developer's perspective this second approach is clearly superior. It also makes transcribing Objective-C code from existing source and example code much easier.  


String Format Specifier Usage
-----------------------------

Many Cocoa classes support variable length argument lists that may include both object references and primitive data types such as numbers and char arrays. JSCocoa converts all such arguments to JavaScript values which may then be referenced as objects. For instance, this means that when using [format specifiers](https://developer.apple.com/library/mac/#documentation/Cocoa/Conceptual/Strings/Articles/formatSpecifiers.html) with [NSString][nsstring] all arguments, regardless of their type, must use the `%@` format specifier.

	// These FAIL as the %i (and all other non object) format specifier is not supported.
	// They will return a large number representing the address of 
	// an object that contains the original value.
	var theString = [NSString stringWithFormat:"%i", 100];
	theString = [NSString stringWithFormat:"%i", [thePostData length]];

	// These SUCCEED thanks to the use of the %@ object specifier.
	var theString = [NSString stringWithFormat:"%@", 100];
	theString = [NSString stringWithFormat:"%@", [thePostData length]];

The rule is simple. Just use the `%@` format specifier and no others.

Calling the Task Run Function
-----------------------------

KosmicTask JavaScript powered tasks are initiated by calling the **Run Function** defined in the task Settings. In the following example the task **Run Function** is set to kosmicTask.

	function kosmicTask() 
	{
		// return our string result
		return 'Hello, kosmos!';
	}


Result Objects
--------------

Tasks written in JavaScript Cocoa can return native JavaScript objects or Cocoa objects as task results. The JSCocoa bridge ensures that all objects are coerced as required.

	function kosmicTask() 
	{
		// return NSArray
		return NSArray.arrayWithArray(["item 1", "item 2"])
	}


Result File Handling
--------------------

KosmicTask supports the returning of file contents within task results. 

KosmicTask automatically looks for a **kosmicFile** record containing file paths within a dictionary type result object. If found, KosmicTask will return the contents of the file or files to the client.

For JavaScript Cocoa powered tasks files are returned as results using the following syntax:

	var result = {kosmicFile: path};

A common usage scenario is that a task creates a temporary file (or files) whose contents are then returned to the client. KosmicTask therefore supports automatic temporary file creation and deletion. Temporary files created through KosmicTask are automatically deleted once the parent task has completed.

JavaScript Cocoa powered tasks can create temporary files by calling the **KosmicTaskController** **resultFileWithName** function.

	function kosmicTask() 
	{
		
	 	// form our image file result path
	 	// this file will be automatically deleted when the task ends.
		var path = KosmicTaskController.resultFileWithName('capture.png');
		
		// capture screen shot to file
		var task = NSTask.launchedTaskWithLaunchPath_arguments('/usr/sbin/screenCapture', ['-t', 'png', path]);
		task.waitUntilExit;
	
		// form result dictionary 
		var result = {kosmicFile: path};
				
		return result
	
	}


Logging and Debugging
---------------------

Diagnostic and logging information can be written to a task's error stream using the log() function. JavaScript does not feature a native logging capability and the function described here is provided by JSCocoa. 

	// send log value to stderr
	log("Goodbye, kosmos");


NSObject Subclassing
--------------------

JavaScript Cocoa objects can be subclassed directly from Cocoa's NSObject:

	// define the Person class
	class Person < NSObject
	{
	    // init method
	    - (void)initWithFirstName:(NSString *)firstName lastName:(NSString *)lastName
	    {
	  		this.firstName = firstName
	  		this.lastName = lastName     
	        return this          
	    }
	    
	    // description method
	    - (NSString *)description
	    {
	        return this.firstName + " " + this.lastName
	    }
	}

This is a unique syntax used to define Cocoa objects and closely mirrors objective-C. A similiar syntax is used in [Objective-J](http://cappuccino.org/learn/tutorials/objective-j-tutorial.php) and [JSTalk](http://jstalk.org/). Prior to task execution this syntax is converted to valid JavaScript.


Runloop Management
------------------

When an JavaScript Cocoa task is run the script runner is transformed into a fully fledged application complete with a run loop (an instance of NSRunLoop). This enables the task to utilise all the features of the Cocoa framework, many of which depend upon the existence of a run loop in order to perform correctly. As a result of its application based nature a task written in JSCocoa will probably take longer to launch and consume more system resources than a regular JavaScript task.

By default however the JSCocoa task will exit its run loop whenever the task entry point exits unless it is requested to do otherwise. This is the case in the example above.

In order for the task to continue executing it is necessary to tell the task controller object (KosmicTaskController ) to keep the task running after the script entry point function has returned. KosmicTaskController is a predefined class that can be accessed by name within the task script .

To keep the task running call the **KosmicTaskController keepTaskRunning** static method. The task will then continue to process input events on its runloop until the **KosmicTaskController stopTask** static method is called. The task will then end and return its result to the client.

	// define class
	class KosmicTask < NSObject
	{
	    // start method
	    - (void)start
	    {
	    	var selector = @selector(timerFired:)
	  		this.timer = NSTimer.scheduledTimerWithTimeInterval_target_selector_userInfo_repeats_(1, this, selector, nil, true)
	  		this.count = 0
	  		
	  		// keep the task running after the entry point function exits
	  		KosmicTaskController.keepTaskRunning      
	    }
	    
	    // callback method
	    - (void)timerFired:(NSTimer *)timer
	    {
	        this.count++
	        if (this.count == 5) {
	        	timer.invalidate
	        	KosmicTaskController.stopTask("timer expired " + this.count + " times")
	        }
	    }
	}
	
	// task entry point
	function kosmicTask() 
	{
		// allocate a task object
		var task = KosmicTask.instance
		
		// start the task
		task.start
	}

System Framework Access
-----------------------

JavaScript Cocoa tasks can access system framework classes using the **loadFramework** function.

	// load the AddressBook framework
	loadFramework("AddressBook")
		
	function kosmicTask() 
	{
		// access the me object in the shared address book
		var person = ABAddressBook.sharedAddressBook.me
		
		// get the first name property
		result = person.valueForProperty(kABFirstNameProperty)
		
		return result
	}


Syntax Checking
---------------

Syntax checking is provided by [JSLint](http://www.jslint.com/) which is included as part of JSCocoa.

Note that JSLint will rewrite the syntax used to implement Cocoa class creation. The rewritten code may be referenced in any build error reports.

[nsstring]: https://developer.apple.com/library/mac/documentation/Cocoa/Conceptual/Strings/introStrings.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/10000035i
[jscocoa]: http://inexdo.com/JSCocoa
[objective-c]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Objective-C
[nstask]: https://developer.apple.com/library/mac/#documentation/Cocoa/Reference/Foundation/Classes/NSTask_Class/Reference/Reference.html
