Excerpted from the CINT README
 
"cint" is a C/C++ interpreter which has following features.

 * Support K&R-C, ANSI-C, ANSI-C++
    Cint has 80-90% coverage on K&R-C, ANSI-C and C++ language constructs. 
   (Multiple inheritance, virtual function, function overloading, operator 
   overloading, default parameter, template, etc..)  Cint is solid enough 
   to interpret its own source code. 
    Cint is not aimed to be a 100% ANSI/ISO compliant C++ language processor.
   It rather is a portable script language environment which is close enough 
   to the standard C++.

 * Handling Huge C/C++ source code
    Cint can handle huge C/C++ source code. This has been a problem for other
   C++ interpreter. Cint is quick in loading source files. Cint can interpret
   its own over 60,000 lines source code.

 * Interpretation & Native Code Execution can be mixed
    Depending on speed and interactiveness requirement, you can mix Native
   Code execution and interpretation. "makecint" makes it possible to 
   encapsulate arbitrary C/C++ object as a precompiled library. Precompiled
   library can be configured as a Dynamic Link Library. Access between
   interpreted code and precompiled code can be done seamlessly in both
   direction. 

 * Single-Language solution
    Cint/makecint is a Single-Language environment. It works with any 
   ANSI-C/C++ compiler to provide the interpreter environment on top of it.

 * Bridge between serious programmers and other professionals
    Cint is meant to be a bridging tool between software and non-software
   professionals. C++ looks rather easy under the interpreter environment.
   It helps non-software professionals to talk in the same language to
   their software counterpart. Today's System-On-Silicon evolution demands
   integration and standardization of design tools in software, hardware, IC
   and system design processes. Cint is a key enabling technology to this
   critical issue.

 * Dynamic C++
    Cint is dynamic. It can process C++ statements from command line,
   dynamically define/erase class definition and functions, load/unload 
   source files and Dynamic Link Library.  Extended Run Time Type 
   Identification mechanism is provided. This will allow you to explore
   unthinkable way of using C++.

 * Built-in Debugger, class browser
    Cint has a built-in debugger with an extensive capability to debug
   complex C++ execution flow. Text base class browser is a part of the 
   debugger capability.

 * Portability
    CINT works on number of Operating Systems.
   HP-UX, Linux, SunOS, Solaris, AIX, Alpha-OSF, IRIX, FreeBSD, NetBSD, 
   NEC EWS4800, NewsOS, BeBox, Windows-NT ,Windows-9x, MS-DOS, MacOS, VMS,
   NextStep, Convex. Porting should be easy. Refer to platform/README. 
   What about OS2, VxWorks, etc...?

 * CINT users spread world wide
    Many people world-wide are using Cint. Many C/C++ libraries have 
   been encapsulated. CERN and Fermi-Lab choose Cint as front-end command 
   processor and script interpreter for "ROOT" Object Oriented Software 
   Framework. The ROOT/CINT framework will be used in Large Hadron 
   Collider(LHC) research project beyond 2020.

 * More applications
   We have done, so far, following integration.
   ROOT/CINT framework: Next generation C++ Object Oriented Framework
   WildC++ interpreter: CINT + Tcl/Tk 
   CINTOCX            : CINT + VisualBasic

   There are unlimited opportunity of CINT integration. To list up a few,
   Cint3D             : CINT, openGL, DirectModel, VRML integration for 3D
   VeriCint           : CINT + Verilog-XL simulator connected by PLI and TCP/IP
   MathCint           : CINT + Math library + Digital Filter Design tool, etc
   CintSQL            : CINT + Database connection
   CintWin32          : CINT + Win32 API
   Your contribution will be greatly appreciated.